README.md, before:

# ANTEX – AI-Powered Antenna Design & Optimization Platform

ANTEX (Antenna Design & Simulation Platform) is an industry-grade antenna design and optimization system that combines analytical electromagnetic models, FDTD simulations, and AI-powered optimization algorithms to design and analyze microstrip patch antennas. It uses Genetic Algorithms (GA) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) to find optimal antenna geometries.

## Features

- **Multiple antenna shapes:** Rectangular patch, star patch, meandered line, ring patch  
- **Optimization algorithms:** GA and PSO with configurable parameters  
- **Simulation modes:** Fast analytical models and optional Meep FDTD for higher accuracy  
- **RF analysis:** Smith Chart, VSWR, return loss, L-section impedance matching  
- **Visualization:** 2D geometry, convergence plots, performance metrics  
- **Report generation:** Comprehensive PDF reports with AI recommendations  

## Design Workflow Flowchart

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Setup["Project setup"]
        A([Create Project])
        B[Define: frequency, bandwidth, substrate]
        C[Select antenna shape & algorithm]
        A --> B --> C
    end

    subgraph Optimize["Optimization loop"]
        D[Initialize population]
        E[Evaluate candidate]
        F[Analytical models: freq, BW, gain, Z]
        G[Compute fitness]
        H{More generations?}
        I[GA: crossover, mutation / PSO: velocity update]
        D --> E --> F --> G --> H
        H -->|Yes| I --> E
    end

    subgraph Results["Results & analysis"]
        J[Select best candidate]
        K[Store results]
        L[RF analysis: Smith Chart, VSWR, S11]
        M[Field viz & PDF report]
        H -->|No| J --> K --> L --> M
    end

    C --> D

    style Setup fill:#e8f4f8
    style Optimize fill:#fff4e6
    style Results fill:#e8f8e8
```

## Screenshots from Report

### Dashboard
Project management and optimization overview.

![ANTEX Dashboard](Report/Dashboard.png)

### Performance Metrics
Real-time visualization of frequency, bandwidth, gain, and VSWR.

![Performance Metrics](Report/Performance.png)

### AI Recommendations
Impedance matching suggestions and design improvements.

![AI Suggestions](Report/AI_Suggestions.png)

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose  
- (Optional) Python 3.10+, Node.js 18+ for local development  

### Run with Docker

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Then open http://localhost:5173 for the frontend.

### Local Development

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
# Configure PostgreSQL and run
uvicorn api.main:app --reload
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Project Structure

| Component | Location |
|-----------|----------|
| Backend API | `backend/api/` |
| Simulation & Models | `backend/sim/` |
| Optimization (GA/PSO) | `backend/optim/` |
| Frontend | `frontend/src/` |
| Technical Report | `TECHNICAL_REPORT.md` |
| IEEE Paper | `Report/ANTEX_Paper.tex` |

## Documentation

- **[TECHNICAL_REPORT.md](TECHNICAL_REPORT.md)** – Full technical documentation, formulas, and architecture  
- **[FEATURES.md](FEATURES.md)** – Feature list and status  
- **[Report/ANTEX_Paper.pdf](Report/ANTEX_Paper.pdf)** – IEEE conference paper  

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add deployment config: Render backend, VITE_API_URL, DEPLOYMENT guide

README.md, after:

# ANTEX – AI-Powered Antenna Design & Optimization Platform

ANTEX (Antenna Design & Simulation Platform) is an industry-grade antenna design and optimization system that combines analytical electromagnetic models, FDTD simulations, and AI-powered optimization algorithms to design and analyze microstrip patch antennas. It uses Genetic Algorithms (GA) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) to find optimal antenna geometries.

**[Live Demo →](https://antexantennadesigner-5a371wh3b-pratik2002singh-3860s-projects.vercel.app)**

## Features

- **Multiple antenna shapes:** Rectangular patch, star patch, meandered line, ring patch  
- **Optimization algorithms:** GA and PSO with configurable parameters  
- **Simulation modes:** Fast analytical models and optional Meep FDTD for higher accuracy  
- **RF analysis:** Smith Chart, VSWR, return loss, L-section impedance matching  
- **Visualization:** 2D geometry, convergence plots, performance metrics  
- **Report generation:** Comprehensive PDF reports with AI recommendations  

## Design Workflow Flowchart

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Setup["Project setup"]
        A([Create Project])
        B[Define: frequency, bandwidth, substrate]
        C[Select antenna shape & algorithm]
        A --> B --> C
    end

    subgraph Optimize["Optimization loop"]
        D[Initialize population]
        E[Evaluate candidate]
        F[Analytical models: freq, BW, gain, Z]
        G[Compute fitness]
        H{More generations?}
        I[GA: crossover, mutation / PSO: velocity update]
        D --> E --> F --> G --> H
        H -->|Yes| I --> E
    end

    subgraph Results["Results & analysis"]
        J[Select best candidate]
        K[Store results]
        L[RF analysis: Smith Chart, VSWR, S11]
        M[Field viz & PDF report]
        H -->|No| J --> K --> L --> M
    end

    C --> D

    style Setup fill:#e8f4f8
    style Optimize fill:#fff4e6
    style Results fill:#e8f8e8
```

## Screenshots from Report

### Dashboard
Project management and optimization overview.

![ANTEX Dashboard](Report/Dashboard.png)

### Performance Metrics
Real-time visualization of frequency, bandwidth, gain, and VSWR.

![Performance Metrics](Report/Performance.png)

### AI Recommendations
Impedance matching suggestions and design improvements.

![AI Suggestions](Report/AI_Suggestions.png)

## Quick Start

**Try it online:** [Live on Vercel](https://antexantennadesigner-5a371wh3b-pratik2002singh-3860s-projects.vercel.app)

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose  
- (Optional) Python 3.10+, Node.js 18+ for local development  

### Run with Docker

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

Then open http://localhost:5173 for the frontend.

### Local Development

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
# Configure PostgreSQL and run
uvicorn api.main:app --reload
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Project Structure

| Component | Location |
|-----------|----------|
| Backend API | `backend/api/` |
| Simulation & Models | `backend/sim/` |
| Optimization (GA/PSO) | `backend/optim/` |
| Frontend | `frontend/src/` |
| Technical Report | `TECHNICAL_REPORT.md` |
| IEEE Paper | `Report/ANTEX_Paper.tex` |

## Documentation

- **[TECHNICAL_REPORT.md](TECHNICAL_REPORT.md)** – Full technical documentation, formulas, and architecture  
- **[FEATURES.md](FEATURES.md)** – Feature list and status  
- **[Report/ANTEX_Paper.pdf](Report/ANTEX_Paper.pdf)** – IEEE conference paper  
- **[DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)** – Deploy backend (Render) + connect to Vercel frontend  

## License

MIT
